docs: ADR for outbox pattern and production modes (#292)
openedx/openedx-events: docs/decisions/0015-outbox-pattern-and-production-modes.rst

- **Post-commit send**: The event is only sent from a ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` callback. This preserves atomicity in the failure case, but the IDA could crash after transaction commit but before calling the broker -- or more commonly, the broker could be down or unreachable, and all of the post-commit-produced events would be lost during that interval. Ordering is also not preserved here.

We currently use an ad-hoc mix of pre-commit and post-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure a post-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent pre-commit. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Decision
********

> We will implement the transactional outbox pattern (or just "outbox pattern") in order to allow binding event production to database transactions. Events will default to post-commit send, but openedx-events configuration will be enhanced to allow configuing each event to a production mode: Immediate, on_commit, or outbox.

Reviewer: are there three modes or four here? Events default to post-commit, or you can configure immediate, on_commit, outbox. post-commit = on_commit?

from reading below it looks like post-commit is current adhoc behavior which all needs to be changed to on_commit future regulated behavior?

Author: Ah yeah, I should clean that up -- it's just three modes. Post-commit/on-commit are supposed to be the same thing. I wasn't sure whether or not to draw a distinction between the current ad-hoc behaviors and the intended modes via naming differences. Probably I shouldn't do that, and should use consistent names for the two. Maybe I'll go back and use the mode names in the Context section rather than using pre-commit and post-commit there?

Author: Updated to consistently use names "immediate" and "on-commit".

In the outbox pattern, events are not produced immediately, but are appended to an "outbox" database table within the transaction. A worker process operating in a separate transaction works through the list in order, producing them to the message broker and removing them once the broker has acknowledged them. This is the standard solution to the dual-write problem and is likely the only way to meet all of the criteria. Atomicity is ensured by bringing the *intent* to send an event into the transaction's ACID guarantees. Transaction commits also impose a meaningful ordering across all hosts using the same database.

openedx-events will change to support three producer modes for sending events:

> - ``immediate``: Whether or not there's a transaction, just send to the event bus immediately. This is the "pre-commit send" described in the Context section and is the current behavior for ``send(...)``.

Reviewer: Could we just drop this one? What I'm getting at is that if all events run through one commit hook, they're easier to think about. Is there ever an important reason to get the event out before the DB write?

Although maybe if all events are sent the same one having this feature is close to free.

  (TBD: Format for the event data in the outbox. No further event-specific DB queries should be required for producing the bytes for the wire format, but it should not be serialized in a way that is specific to Kafka, Redis, etc.)

  (TBD: Safeguards around inadvertently changing the save-to-outbox function's name and module, since those are included in jaiminho's outbox records.)

openedx-events will add a per event type configuration field specifying the event’s producer mode in the form of a new key-topic field inside ``EVENT_BUS_PRODUCER_CONFIG``. It will also add a new Django setting ``EVENT_BUS_PRODUCER_MODE`` that names a mode to use when not otherwise specified (defaulting to ``on_commit``.)

``django-jaiminho`` will be added as a dependency of openedx-events and to the ``INSTALLED_APPS`` of relying IDAs.

TBD: Observability of outbox size and event send errors.

.. _django-jaiminho: https://github.com/loadsmart/django-jaiminho

Consequences
************

- The event bus becomes far more reliable, and able to handle events that require at-least-once delivery. The need for manual re-producing of events should become very rare.

> - Open edX becomes more complicated to run. Adding a new worker process to every service that produces events will further increase the orchestration needs of Open edX. (See alternatives section for a possible workaround.)

Reviewer: does it? Can't I just configure all my events to be post-commit send in a config file?

or maybe I misunderstood and the three producer models are in code, not all the same in code and then at "send" do one of three things

Author: True, it doesn't become more complicated if you opt not to use outbox. (I just... have opinions here.) I can dial that back.

- Duplication becomes possible, so we would need a way to avoid sending the same event over and over again to the broker if the broker is failing to send acknowledgements. We may need to revisit existing events and improve documentation around ensuring that consumers can tolerate duplication, either by ensuring that events are idempotent or by keeping track of which event IDs have already been processed.
- The database will be required to store an unbounded number of events during a broker outage, worker outage, or event bus misconfiguration.

Rejected and Unplanned Alternatives
***********************************

> Change Data Capture

Reviewer: thanks, this was the "isn't there an obvious shortcut" question I was having and this is a good answer for why we don't take it

Non-worker event production
===========================

The outbox pattern usually involves running a worker process that handles moving data from the outbox to the broker. However, it may be possible for deployers to avoid this with the use of some alternative middleware. For example, a custom middleware could flush events to the broker at the end of each event-producing request. The middleware's ``post_response`` would run outside of the request's main transaction. It would check if the request had created events, and if so, it would pull *at least that many* events from the outbox and produce them to the broker, then remove them from the outbox. If the server crashed before this could complete, later requests would eventually complete the work. This would also cover events produced by workers and other non-request-based processes.

> Web responses that produce events would have higher latency, as they would have to finish an additional DB read, broker call, and DB write before returning the response to the user. Event latency would also increase and become more variable due to the opportunistic approach.

Reviewer: Don't current web calls that produce events already have the broker latency?

Author: Might depend on the implementation. The Kafka implementation queues events for delivery to the broker, but that happens asynchronously to the request. Another implementation might do synchronous delivery (including raising an exception in the request thread if the broker communication fails!)

As of 2023-11-09 we produce events in two different ways relative to transactions:

- **Immediate send**: The event is produced to the event bus immediately upon the signal being sent, which will generally occur inside Django's request-level transaction (if using ``ATOMIC_REQUESTS``). This preserves atomicity in the success case as long as the broker is reachable, even if the IDA crashes -- but it does not preserve atomicity when the transaction fails. There is also no ordering guarantee in the case of concurrent requests.
- **On-commit send**: The event is only sent from a ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` callback. This preserves atomicity in the failure case, but the IDA could crash after transaction commit but before calling the broker -- or more commonly, the broker could be down or unreachable, and all of the on-commit-produced events would be lost during that interval. Ordering is also not preserved here.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: Those other in-process receivers would generally be operating within the request-level transaction though, right? Any which do should have the desired reliability properties already.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Reviewer 2: Not exactly. Any non-trivial in-process event processing would still likely happen async using celery. It just wouldn't require the event bus for communicating across services.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: Hmm. I guess I'm not sure what you're trying to say.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, maybe I'm getting confused. There are two steps:
1. The call to OpenEdxPublicSignal's send_event, and
2. The call to send an event to a broker in this signal's receiver.

The very first step might be happening immediately, or on-commit, depending on how it was implemented correct? I'm now unclear whether when you are referring to "immediate send" and "on-commit send", whether you are referring to step 1 above, or step 2 above. Also, I'm not clear from an implementation standpoint (without looking more deeply), what combinations of immediate/on-commit are possible across steps 1 and 2.

Once we are on the same page with this, maybe I can make my earlier questions more clear. If this is also not clear, than we can just discuss in person. :)

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: When I refer to immediate or on-commit send, I'm referring to publishing to the broker. It's the only thing that openedx-events has control over -- if the business logic decides to delay calling a signal's send_event until after a transaction has committed, that's out of our control.

(Maybe I should rename those modes to "immediate publish" and "on-commit publish" to distinguish from Django's signal "sending"? Language is hard because we're talking about two layers of pub/sub systems here.)

If the code that sends to a signal does so in transaction.on_commit, the only possible behavior is producing to the broker after transaction completion. If instead the code sends to a signal as soon as possible, then it depends on what mode is configured for that signal -- the event might get published to the broker immediately, or delayed to commit-time.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Reviewer 2: Got it.
1. I think choosing some term like "publish", to differentiate from "send", and clarifying that you will use one with the signal and the other with publishing to the event bus, would help.
2. You can possibly see my confusion due to this sentence:
> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted.
Although you possibly mean what you said, it is difficult to understand that you are referring to publishing to the broker in the first half, but referring to the signal send in the second half. Also, the possible combinations were not as clear as your comment above.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: Yeah, that's... definitely confusing. I'll rework it to use distinct language. :-)

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Reviewer 2: Great. And I think adding something of the nature of this comment also helps clarify:

> If the code that sends to a signal does so in transaction.on_commit, the only possible behavior is producing to the broker after transaction completion. If instead the code sends to a signal as soon as possible, then it depends on what mode is configured for that signal -- the event might get published to the broker immediately, or delayed to commit-time.

Although it is somewhat logical/obvious, it also helps differentiate between the two.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: I think the overall language change I want to make is this:

- "Send" is used only for Django signals
- "Publish" is used for emitting events to the event bus broker

I want to avoid "produce" for the most part, as it leads to awkward phrasing (in my opinion). Produce/consume and publish/subscribe are largely used as synonyms in this space, but publish/subscribe [seems to be more accurate](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42471870/publish-subscribe-vs-producer-consumer). I still want a way to describe IDAs and requests that _can_ create an event and _try_ to publish it, with the distinction that the publishing may not actually occur in all situations (e.g. in an error situation). For those, "event-producing IDA" and "event-producing request" seem sufficient.

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Author: Given that there's no current plan to actually implement immediate mode, do you still want that language about immediate and on-commit behaviors?

> We currently use an ad-hoc mix of immediate and on-commit send in edx-platform, depending on how particular OpenEdxPublicSignals are emitted. For example, the code path for ``COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED`` involves an explicit call to ``django.db.transaction.on_commit`` in order to ensure an on-commit send is used. But most signals do not have any such call, and are likely sent immediately. This uncontrolled state reflects our iterative approach to the event bus as well as our choice to start with events that are backed by other synchronization measures which can correct for consistency issues. However, we'd like to start handling events that require stronger reliability guarantees, such as those in the ecommerce space.

Reviewer 2: 1. Note that we mainly use produce/consume for our docs (e.g. https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/3508699151/How+to+start+using+the+Event+Bus#Producing). I'm not entirely against you using publish/subscribe, but then it feels like you should address this discrepancy. I would wonder how publish/subscribe differs from produce/consume, used everywhere else in the docs.
2. I say you update as you see fit, and then I can answer your question as to whether I think anything is still unclear.

Decision
********

We will implement the transactional outbox pattern (or just "outbox pattern") in order to allow binding event production to database transactions. Events will default to on-commit send, but openedx-events configuration will be enhanced to allow configuring each event to a choice of production mode (on-commit or outbox).

> In the outbox pattern, events are not produced as part of the request/response cycle, but are instead appended to an "outbox" database table within the transaction. A worker process operating in a separate transaction works through the list in order, producing them to the message broker and removing them once the broker has acknowledged them. This is the standard solution to the dual-write problem and is likely the only way to meet all of the criteria. Atomicity is ensured by bringing the *intent* to send an event into the transaction's ACID guarantees. Transaction commits also impose a meaningful ordering across all hosts using the same database.

Author: Hmm, how about something like this? Marking them as sent is required, but can be separated from deletion.

```suggestion
In the outbox pattern, events are not produced as part of the request/response cycle, but are instead appended to an "outbox" database table within the transaction. A worker process operating in a separate transaction works through the list in order, producing them to the message broker and marking the records as sent. (This or another process eventually removes them from the table.) This is the standard solution to the dual-write problem and is likely the only way to meet all of the criteria. Atomicity is ensured by bringing the *intent* to send an event into the transaction's ACID guarantees. Transaction commits also impose a meaningful ordering across all hosts using the same database.
```

> In the outbox pattern, events are not produced as part of the request/response cycle, but are instead appended to an "outbox" database table within the transaction. A worker process operating in a separate transaction works through the list in order, producing them to the message broker and removing them once the broker has acknowledged them. This is the standard solution to the dual-write problem and is likely the only way to meet all of the criteria. Atomicity is ensured by bringing the *intent* to send an event into the transaction's ACID guarantees. Transaction commits also impose a meaningful ordering across all hosts using the same database.

Author: Yes, I'll add something.

openedx-events will change to support two producer modes for sending events when ``send(...)`` is called:

- ``on-commit``: Delay sending to the event bus until after the current transaction commits, or immediately if there is no open transaction (as might occur in a worker process).

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Author: Here's where we currently delay the sending of a specific event until after the transaction commits: https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/a74f510f71c19142aeb380facdc2cdfecf16c38a/cms/djangoapps/contentstore/signals/handlers.py#L153 (Note that it currently has an additional race condition, in that the data for the event is gathered _after_ the transaction has committed.)

We'd be able to replace this `transaction.on_commit` call with something like `COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED.send_event(*_create_catalog_data_for_signal(course_key))` (computing the event body _inside_ the transaction). The default configuration of `COURSE_CATALOG_INFO_CHANGED` would be to send it in `on-commit` mode, largely preserving the existing behavior -- but without that race condition.

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Reviewer 3: I think this raises some important caveats that are worth documenting, maybe in "consequences". django-jaiminho stores the args/kwargs and only executes the function call to send the message after (maybe quite a while after) the transaction is committed, so it is important to be very mindful of both the size of what you're potentially sending in and the fact that you're not actually acting in the same transaction as the rest of the code, which may have some unintended consequences.

Things like passing in a lazy Django queryset can cause it to get evaluated, so if you're planning on doing further filtering in the sending function, that should get bubbled up to the caller. There's also a 65k limit to the `dill`'d stored args, so there's a chance of inadvertently overrunning that with an evaluated queryset and either losing the event due to error or saving an unserializable blob to the database.

Similarly we'd need to be on guard against pulling any new data in the sending function since it could be operating on data hours later than when it was queued, breaking the ordering guarantees. 

With `dill` in the picture folks will also need to think about the usual `pickle` security problems, and potential serialization issues that they wouldn't have otherwise had to.

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Reviewer 4: @timmc-edx: can we add to the ADR the example you [just mentioned](https://github.com/openedx/openedx-events/pull/292/files#r1423141734) about the replacement? 

Also, in these lines you mention:
```suggestion
  This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.
```
But the example is different. Should the ADR be updated with the proper example?

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Author: @bmtcril Yes, I think what we want to do here is only use the jaiminho decorator on a very simple, very stable function that only accepts pre-serialized data -- maybe JSON strings. I don't think jaiminho's overall approach in that regard is very safe, but it looks like there's a safe way to use it. (We could also just call `jaiminho.publish_strategies.publish` directly.)

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Author: @mariajgrimaldi Sorry, yes, I was still thinking of the older version of openedx-events where we explicitly call send on the producer. Now that we have configuration-based event publishing, everything is handled by openedx-events' signal handlers.

Specifically, [`openedx_events.apps.general_signal_handler`](https://github.com/openedx/openedx-events/blob/1a5f9ca8ff03a573bdd44a8abee9b77aba26d80e/openedx_events/apps.py#L13C17-L13C17) is currently the receiver for OpenEdxPublicSignals, and it makes a call to `get_producer().send(...)`. `general_signal_handler` would change to look at the publishing mode for the event and either store the event in the outbox or schedule the `get_producer().send(...)` to be run on-commit.

If that sounds right to you, I can update the Implementation Plan section.

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Reviewer 4: @timmc-edx: thank you! That would be ideal.

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Author: @mariajgrimaldi Should be taken care of by the recent commits -- let me know what you think.

>   This requires ensuring that any events that are currently being explicitly sent on-commit are changed to call ``get_producer().send(...)`` directly, after appropriate per-event configuration. ``emit_catalog_info_changed_signal`` is a known example of this.

Reviewer 4: @timmc-edx: Thanks again. Now it's crystal clear.

> - ``outbox``: Prep the signal for sending, and save in an outbox table for sending as soon as possible. The outbox table will be managed by `django-jaiminho`_. Deployers using this mode will also need to run a jaiminho management command in a perpetual worker process in order to relay events from the outbox to the broker and mark them as successfully sent. Another management command would be needed to periodically purge old processed events.

Author: I could break out an implementation plan subsection.

> - ``outbox``: Prep the signal for sending, and save in an outbox table for sending as soon as possible. The outbox table will be managed by `django-jaiminho`_. Deployers using this mode will also need to run a jaiminho management command in a perpetual worker process in order to relay events from the outbox to the broker and mark them as successfully sent. Another management command would be needed to periodically purge old processed events.

Author: This has been moved to a new subsection.

> - ``outbox``: Prep the signal for sending, and save in an outbox table for sending as soon as possible. The outbox table will be managed by `django-jaiminho`_. Deployers using this mode will also need to run a jaiminho management command in a perpetual worker process in order to relay events from the outbox to the broker and mark them as successfully sent. Another management command would be needed to periodically purge old processed events.

Reviewer 2: **note to self:** review this update.

  (TBD: Format for the event data in the outbox. No further event-specific DB queries should be required for producing the bytes for the wire format, but it should not be serialized in a way that is specific to Kafka, Redis, etc.)

  (TBD: Safeguards around inadvertently changing the save-to-outbox function's name and module, since those are included in jaiminho's outbox records.)

openedx-events will add a per event type configuration field specifying the event’s producer mode in the form of a new key-topic field inside ``EVENT_BUS_PRODUCER_CONFIG``. It will also add a new Django setting ``EVENT_BUS_PRODUCER_MODE`` that names a mode to use when not otherwise specified (defaulting to ``on-commit``.)

This will remove the ability to send an event immediately, as none of the currently implemented events would benefit from it. If in the future there is an event type that requires it, perhaps because it represents a request or attempt or even a failure, an ``immediate`` mode can be added.

> ``django-jaiminho`` will be added as a dependency of openedx-events and to the ``INSTALLED_APPS`` of relying IDAs.

Author: This is now in the Implementation Plan subsection.

CDC systems also source their data at a lower level than we're targeting with the event bus; Django usually insulates us from schema details via an ORM layer, but CDC involves reading table data directly. We'd have tight coupling with our DB schemas. And the eventing system we've chosen to build operates at a higher abstraction layer than database writes, creating another conceptual mismatch. Theoretically, a CDC system could also be responsible for reading events from an outbox, allowing high-level eventing, but this is unlikely to be more palatable than just running a management command in a loop.

Non-worker event production
===========================

> The outbox pattern usually involves running a worker process that handles moving data from the outbox to the broker. However, it may be possible for deployers to avoid this with the use of some alternative middleware. For example, a custom middleware could flush events to the broker at the end of each event-producing request. The middleware's ``post_response`` would run outside of the request's main transaction. It would check if the request had created events, and if so, it would pull *at least that many* events from the outbox and produce them to the broker, then remove them from the outbox. If the server crashed before this could complete, later requests would eventually complete the work. This would also cover events produced by workers and other non-request-based processes.

Reviewer 2: 1. It seems like celery beat could be used as well. Same as it possibly could have been for event consumers.
2. Is an alternative also to just another type (like immediate), or allow outbox to work like immediate if some part of it is not configured? Logging would just need to be used for produce errors, as we would need to do now.

Author: 1. I would group celery-beat under the umbrella of worker processes. (Most of our IDAs don't have a celery worker, right?)
2. I don't think there's any way for the adding-to-outbox side to know whether the removing-from-outbox side is properly configured.
